---
layout: post
category: announcements
time: 11:00 PM
description: Update about the lecture time for the CS 491 CAP course.
---

Due to a number of students having course conflicts with the original time for CS 491 CAP, we will be rescheduling the course to a new time. If you haven’t already done so, please check out the [course syllabus][1] and the first lecture and problem set, posted at the [course website][2], to get an idea what will be required of you for the course. Please note that if you do not already have proficiency coding in C/C++ or Java, you will have a difficult time in the course, as we assume basic coding ability.

<br>

<i>If you are seriously interested in taking the course for credit or in competing in the ACM ICPC Regionals this semester</i>, please fill out [this poll][3] with your availabilities for this semester. We will be tallying the results and deciding the new time for the course <b>TOMORROW, THURSDAY, AUGUST 27th at 10 PM CST</b>. While we can’t make any guarantees, we will try to accommodate as many of you as possible.

<br>

Many of you have also pointed out to us that the CS 491 CAP course has reached capacity. We are aware of the situation, and are currently working to increase the number of available spots. When we update the course time and capacity, we will let you know through the ICPC mailing list. Please also note that you do not need to register for the course to attend the lectures and complete the practice assignments – we encourage you to sit in if you would like to improve your skills.

[1]: https://wiki.cites.illinois.edu/wiki/display/cs491cap/Home
[2]: https://wiki.cites.illinois.edu/wiki/display/cs491cap/Syllabus
[3]: http://whenisgood.net/CS-491-CAP-seminar-time

